1 After all this I looked and saw a door in Heaven standing open, and the voice that I had previously heard, which resembled the blast of a trumpet, again spoke to me and said, "Come up here, and I will show you things which are to happen in the future."
2 Immediately I found myself in the Spirit, and  saw a throne in Heaven, and some One sitting on the throne.
3 The appearance of Him who sat there was like  jasper or sard; and encircling the throne was a  rainbow, in appearance like an emerald.
4 Surrounding the throne there were also twenty-four other thrones, on which sat  twenty-four Elders clothed in white robes, with victors' wreaths of gold upon their heads.
5 Out from the throne  there came flashes of lightning, and voices, and peals of thunder, while in front of the throne seven blazing lamps were burning, which are the seven Spirits of God.
6 And in front of the throne there seemed to be a  sea of glass, resembling crystal. And  midway between the throne and the Elders, and surrounding the throne, were  four living creatures, full of eyes in front and behind.
7 The first living creature resembled a lion, the second an ox, the third had a face like that of a man, and the fourth resembled an eagle flying.
8 And each of the four living creatures had six wings, and in every direction, and within, are full of eyes; and day after day, and night after night, they never cease saying,  "Holy, holy, holy, Lord God, the Ruler of all, who wast and art and  evermore shalt be."
9 And whenever the living creatures give glory and honor and thanks to Him who is seated on the throne, and lives until the Ages of the Ages,
10 the twenty-four Elders fall down before Him who sits on the throne and worship Him who lives until the Ages of the Ages, and they cast their wreaths down in front of the throne,
11 saying, "It is fitting, O our Lord and God, That we should ascribe unto Thee the glory and the honor and the power; For Thou didst create all things, And because it was Thy will they came into existence, and were created."
