1 Then a reed was given me to serve as a measuring rod; and a voice said, "Rise, and measure God's sanctuary--and  the altar--and count the worshipers who are in it.
2 But as for the court which is outside the sanctuary, pass it over. Do not measure it; for it has been given to the Gentiles, and for  forty-two months they will trample the holy city under foot.
3 And I will authorize My  two witnesses to prophesy for  1,260 days,  clothed in sackcloth.
4 "These witnesses are  the two olive-trees, and they are the two lamps which stand in the presence of the Lord of the earth.
5 And if any one seeks to injure them--fire comes from their mouths and devours their enemies; and if any one seeks to injure them, he will in this way certainly be killed.
6 They have power given to them to seal up the sky, so that no rain may fall so long as they continue to prophesy; and power over the waters to turn them into blood, and to smite the  earth with various plagues whenever they choose to do so.
7 "And when they have fully delivered their testimony,  the Wild Beast which is to rise out of the bottomless pit will make war upon them and overcome them and kill them.
8 And their dead bodies are to lie in the broad street of  the great city which spiritually is designated  `Sodom' and `Egypt,' where indeed their Lord was crucified.
9 And men belonging to all peoples, tribes, languages and nations gaze at their dead bodies for three days and a half, but they refuse to let them be laid in a tomb.
10 The  inhabitants of the earth rejoice over them and are glad and will send gifts to one another; for these two Prophets had greatly troubled the inhabitants of the earth."
11 But at the end of the three days and a half the breath of life from God entered into them, and they rose to their feet; and all who saw them were terrified.
12 Then they heard a loud voice calling to them out of Heaven, and bidding them come up; and they  went up to Heaven in the cloud, and their enemies saw them go.
13 And just as that time there was a great earthquake, and a tenth part of the city was overthrown. 7,000 people were killed in the earthquake, and the rest were terrified and gave glory to the God of Heaven.
14 The second Woe is past; the third Woe will soon be here.
15 The seventh angel blew his trumpet; and there followed loud voices in Heaven which said, "The sovereignty of the world  now belongs to our Lord and His Christ; and He will be King until the Ages of the Ages."
16 Then the twenty-four Elders, who sit on thrones in the presence of God, fell on their faces and worshipped God,
17 saying, "We give thee thanks, O Lord God, the Ruler of all, Who art and wast, because Thou hast exerted Thy power, Thy great power, and hast become King.
18 The nations grew angry, and Thine anger has come, and the time for the dead to be judged, and the time for Thee to give their reward to Thy servants the Prophets and to Thy people, and to those who fear Thee, the small and the great, and to destroy those who destroy the earth."
19 Then the doors of God's sanctuary in Heaven were opened, and the Ark, in which His Covenant was, was seen in His sanctuary; and there came flashes of lightning, and voices, and peals of thunder, and an earthquake, and heavy hail.
