1 Then I saw an angel coming down from Heaven, having the key of the bottomless pit, and upon his arm he carried a great chain.
2 He laid hold of the Dragon--the ancient serpent--who is the Devil and  the Adversary, and  bound him for  a thousand years, and hurled him into the bottomless pit.
3 He closed the entrance and put a seal upon him in order that he might be unable to lead the nations astray any more until the thousand years were at an end. Afterwards he is to be set at liberty for a short time.
4 And I saw  thrones, and some who  were seated on them, to whom judgment was entrusted. And I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded on account of the testimony that they had borne to Jesus and on account of God's Message, and also the souls of those who had not worshipped the Wild Beast or his statue, nor received his mark on their foreheads or  on their hands; and they  came to Life and were kings with Christ for a thousand years.
5 No one else who was dead rose to Life until the thousand years were at an end. This is  the First Resurrection.
6 Blessed and holy are those who share in the First Resurrection.  The Second Death has no power over them, but they shall be priests to God and to Christ, and shall be kings with Christ for the thousand years.
7 But  when the thousand years are at an end, the Adversary will be released from his imprisonment,
8 and will go out to lead astray the nations in all the four corners of the earth,  Gog and Magog, and assemble them for war, and they are like the sands on the seashore in number.
9 And they went up over the whole breadth of the earth and surrounded the encampment of God's people and the beloved city. But fire came down from Heaven and consumed them;
10 and the Devil,  who had been leading them astray, was thrown into  the Lake of fire and sulphur where the Wild Beast and the false Prophet were, and day and night they will suffer torture until the Ages of the Ages.
11 Then I saw  a great white throne and One who was seated on it, from whose presence earth and sky fled away, and no place was found for them.
12 And I saw the dead, the great and the small, standing in front of the throne. And books were opened; and so was another book--namely, the Book of Life; and the dead were judged by the things recorded in the  books in accordance with what their conduct had been.
13 Then the sea yielded up the dead who were in it, Death and Hades yielded up the dead who were in them, and each man was judged in accordance with what his conduct had been.
14 Then Death and Hades were thrown into the Lake of fire; this is the Second Death--the Lake of fire.
15 And if any one's name was not found recorded in the Book of Life he was thrown into the Lake of fire.
