1 Therefore be imitators of God, as His dear children.
2 And live and act lovingly, as Christ also loved you and gave Himself up to death on our behalf as an offering and sacrifice to God, yielding a fragrant odor.
3 But fornication and every kind of impurity, or covetousness, let them not even be mentioned among you, for they  ought not to be named among God's people.
4 Avoid shameful and foolish talk and low jesting--they are all alike discreditable--and in place of these give thanks.
5 For be well assured that no fornicator or immoral person and no money-grubber--or in other words idol-worshipper--has any share awaiting him in the Kingdom of Christ and of God.
6 Let no one deceive you with empty words, for it is on account of these very sins that God's anger is coming upon the  disobedient.
7 Therefore do not become sharers with them.
8 There was a time when you were nothing but darkness. Now, as Christians, you are Light itself.
9 Live and act as sons of Light--for the effect of the Light is seen in every kind of goodness, uprightness and truth--
10 and learn in your own experiences what is fully pleasing to the Lord.
11 Have nothing to do with the barren unprofitable deeds of darkness, but, instead of that,  set your faces against them;
12 for the things which are done by these people in secret it is disgraceful even to speak of.
13 But everything can be tested by the light and thus be shown in its true colors; for whatever shines of itself is light.
14 For this reason it is said, "Rise, sleeper; rise from among the dead, and Christ will shed light upon you."
15 Therefore be very careful how you live and act. Let it not be as unwise men, but as wise.
16 Buy up your opportunities, for these are evil times.
17 On this account do not prove yourselves wanting in sense, but try to understand what the Lord's will is.
18 Do not over-indulge in wine--a thing in which excess is so easy--
19 but  drink deeply of God's Spirit. Speak to one another with psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. Sing and offer praise in your hearts to the Lord.
20 Always and for everything let your thanks to God the Father be presented in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ;
21 and submit to one another out of reverence for Christ.
22 Married women, submit to your own husbands as if to the Lord;
23 because a husband is the Head of his wife as Christ also is the Head of the Church, being indeed the Saviour of this His Body.
24 And just as the Church submits to Christ, so also married women should be entirely submissive to their husbands.
25 Married men, love your wives, as Christ also loved the Church and gave Himself up to death for her;
26 in order to make her holy, cleansing her with  the baptismal water by the word,
27 that He might present the Church to Himself a glorious bride, without spot or wrinkle or any other defect, but to be holy and unblemished.
28 So too married men ought to love their wives as much as they love themselves. He who loves his wife loves himself.
29 For never yet has a man hated his own body. On the contrary he feeds and cherishes it, just as Christ feeds and cherishes the Church;
30 because we are, as it were, parts of His Body.
31 &lt;"For this reason a man is to leave his father and his mother and be united to his wife, and the two shall be as one."&gt;
32 That is a great truth hitherto kept secret: I mean the truth concerning Christ and the Church.
33 Yet I insist that among you also, each man is to love his own wife as much as he loves himself, and let a married woman see to it that she treats her husband with respect.
