1 Children,  be obedient to your parents as a Christian duty, for it is a duty.
2 &lt;"Honour your father and your mother"&gt; --this is the first Commandment which has a promise added to it--
3 &lt;"so that it may be well with you, and that you may live long on the earth."&gt;
4 And you, fathers, do not  irritate your children, but bring them up tenderly with true Christian training and advice.
5 Slaves,  be obedient to your earthly masters, with respect and eager anxiety to please and with simplicity of motive as if you were obeying Christ.
6 Let it not be in acts of eye-service as if you had but to please men, but as Christ's bondservants who are doing God's will from the heart.
7 With right good will, be faithful to your duty as service rendered to the Lord and not to man.
8 You well know that whatever right thing any one does, he will receive a requital for it from the Lord, whether he is a slave or a free man.
9 And you masters, act towards your slaves on the same principles, and refrain from threats. For you know that in Heaven there is One who is your Master as well as theirs, and that  merely earthly distinctions there are none with Him.
10 In conclusion, strengthen yourselves in the Lord and in the power which His supreme might imparts.
11 Put on the complete armour of God, so as to be able to stand firm against all the stratagems of the Devil.
12 For ours is not a conflict with mere flesh and blood, but with the despotisms, the empires, the forces that control and govern this dark world--the spiritual hosts of evil arrayed against us in the heavenly warfare.
13 Therefore put on the complete armour of God, so that you may be able to stand your ground on  the day of battle, and, having fought to the end, to remain victors on the field.
14 Stand therefore, first fastening round you the girdle of truth and putting on the breastplate of uprightness
15 as well as the shoes of the Good News of peace--  a firm foundation for your feet.
16 And  besides all these take the great shield of faith, on which you will be able to quench all the flaming darts of the Wicked one;
17 and  take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit which is the word of God.
18 Pray with  unceasing prayer and entreaty on every fitting occasion in the Spirit, and be always on the alert to seize opportunities for doing so, with  unwearied persistence and entreaty on behalf of all God's people,
19 and ask on my behalf that words may be given to me so that, outspoken and fearless, I may make known the truths (hitherto kept secret) of the Good News--
20 to spread which I am an ambassador in chains--so that when telling them I may speak out boldly as I ought.
21 But in order that you also may know how I am doing, Tychicus our dearly-loved brother and faithful helper in the Lord's service will tell you everything.
22 I have sent him to you for the very purpose--that you may know about us and that he may encourage you.
23 Peace be to the brethren, and love combined with faith, from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
24 May grace be with all who love our Lord Jesus Christ with perfect sincerity.
