1 Since, then, Christ has suffered in the flesh, you also must arm yourselves with a determination to do the same--because he who has suffered in the flesh  has done with sin--
2 that in future you may spend the rest of your earthly lives, governed not by human passions, but by the will of God.
3 For you have given time enough in the past to the doing of the things which the Gentiles delight in--  pursuing, as you did, a course of  habitual licence, debauchery, hard drinking, noisy revelry, drunkenness and unholy image-worship.
4 At this they are astonished--that you do not run into the same excess of profligacy as they do; and they speak abusively of you.
5 But they will have to give account to Him who stands ready to pronounce judgement on  the living and the dead.
6 For it is with this end in view that  the Good News was proclaimed even to some who were dead, that they may be judged, as all mankind will be judged, in the body, but may be living a godly life in the spirit.
7 But the end of all things is now close at hand: therefore be sober-minded and temperate, so that you may give yourselves to prayer.
8 Above all continue to love one another fervently, for love throws a veil over a multitude of faults.
9 Extend ungrudging hospitality towards one another.
10 Whatever be the gifts which each has received, you must use them for one another's benefit, as good stewards of God's many-sided kindness.
11 If any one preaches, let it be as uttering God's truth; if any one renders a service to others, let it be in the strength which God supplies; so that in everything glory may be given to God in the name of Jesus Christ, to whom belong the glory and the might to the Ages of the Ages. Amen.
12 Dear friends, do not be surprised at finding that that scorching flame of persecution is raging among you to put you to the test--as though some surprising thing were accidentally happening to you.
13 On the contrary, in the degree that you share in the sufferings of the Christ, rejoice, so that at the unveiling of His glory you may also rejoice with triumphant gladness.
14 You are to be envied, if you are being reproached for bearing the name of Christ; for in that case the Spirit of glory--  even the Spirit of God--is resting upon you.
15 But let not one of you suffer as a murderer or a thief or an evil-doer, or as a spy upon other people's business.
16 If, however, any one suffers because he is a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God  for being permitted to bear that name.
17 For the time has come for judgement to begin, and to begin at the house of God; and if it begins with us, what will be the end of those who reject God's Good News?
18 And if it is difficult even for a righteous man to be saved, what will become of irreligious men and sinners?
19 Therefore also, let those who are suffering in accordance with the will of God  entrust their  souls in well-doing to a faithful Creator.
