1 It is important, brethren, that you should have clear knowledge on the subject of spiritual  gifts.
2 You know that when you were heathens you went astray after dumb idols, wherever you  happened to be led.
3 For this reason I would have you understand that no one speaking under the influence of The Spirit of God ever says, "Jesus is accursed," and that no one is able to say, "Jesus is Lord," except under the influence of the Holy Spirit.
4 Now there are various kinds of gifts, but there is one and the same Spirit;
5 various forms of official service, and yet one and the same Lord;
6 diversities in work, and yet one and the same God--He who in each person brings about the whole result.
7 But to each of us a manifestation of the Spirit has been granted for the common good.
8 To one the utterance of wisdom has been granted through the Spirit; to another the utterance of knowledge  in accordance with the will of the same Spirit;
9 to a third man, by means of the same Spirit, special faith; to another various gifts of healing, by means of the one Spirit;
10 to another the exercise of miraculous powers;  to another the gift of  prophecy; to another the power of discriminating between prophetic utterances; to another varieties of the gift of `tongues;' to another the interpretation of tongues.
11 But these results are all brought about by one and the same Spirit, who  bestows His gifts upon each of us in accordance with His own will.
12 For just as the human body is one and yet has many parts, and all its parts, many as they are, constitute but one body,  so it is with  the Church of Christ.
13 For, in fact, in one Spirit all of us--whether we are Jews or  Gentiles, slaves or free men--were baptized to form but one body; and we were all  nourished by that one Spirit.
14 For the human body does not consist of one part, but of many.
15 Were the foot to say, "Because I am not a  hand I am not a part of the body," that would not make it any the less a part of the body.
16 Or were the ear to say, "Because I am not an eye, I am not a part of the body," that would not make it any the less a part of the body.
17 If the whole body were an eye, where would the hearing be? If the whole body were an ear, where would the nostrils be?
18 But, as a matter of fact, God has arranged the parts in the body--every one of them--as He has seen fit.
19 If they were all one part, where would the body be?
20 But, as a matter of fact, there are many parts and but one body.
21 It is also impossible for the eye to say to the hand, "I do not need you;" or again for the head to say to the feet, "I do not need you."
22 No, it is quite otherwise. Even those parts of the body which are apparently somewhat feeble are yet indispensable;
23 and those which we deem less honorable we clothe with more abundant honor; and so our ungraceful parts come to have a more abundant grace, while our graceful parts have everything they need.
24 But it was God who  built up the body, and bestowed more abundant honor on the part that felt the need,
25 that there might be no disunion in the body, but that all the members might entertain the same anxious care for one another's welfare.
26 And if one part is suffering, every other part suffers with it; or if one part is receiving special honor, every other part  shares in the joy.
27 As for you, you are the body of Christ, and individually you are members of it.
28 And  by God's appointment there are in the Church--first Apostles, secondly  Prophets, thirdly teachers. Then come miraculous powers, and then ability to cure diseases or render loving service, or powers of organization, or varieties of the gift of `tongues.'
29 Are all Apostles? Are all Prophets? Are all teachers?
30 Have all miraculous powers? Have all ability to cure diseases? Do all speak in `tongues'? Do all interpret?
31 But always seek to excel in the greater gifts. And now I will point out to you a way of life which transcends all others.
