1 As to the collection for God's people, what I have directed the Churches of Galatia to do, you must do also.
2 On the first day of every week let each of you put on one side and store up at his home  whatever gain has been granted to him; so that whenever I come, there may then be no collections going on.
3 And when I am with you, whatever brethren you accredit by letter I will send to carry your kind gift to Jerusalem.
4 And if it is worth while for me also to make the journey, they shall go as my companions.
5 I shall come to you after passing through Macedonia; for my plan will be to pass through Macedonia;
6 and I shall make some stay with you perhaps, or even spend the winter with you, in order that you may help me forward, whichever way I travel.
7 For I do not wish to see you on this occasion merely in passing; but if the Lord permits, I hope to remain some time with you.
8 I shall remain in Ephesus, however, until  the time of the Harvest Festival,
9 for a wide door stands open before me which demands great efforts, and we have many opponents.
10 If Timothy pays you a visit, see that he is free from fear in his relations with you; for he is engaged in the Master's work just as I am.
11 Therefore let no one slight him, but all of you should help him forward in peace to join me; for I am waiting for him and  others of the brethren.
12 As for our brother Apollos, I have repeatedly urged him to accompany the brethren who are  coming to you: but he is quite resolved not to do so at present. He will come, however, when he has a good opportunity.
13 Be on the alert; stand firm in the faith; acquit yourselves like men; be strong.
14 Let all that you do be done  from motives of love.
15 And I beseech you, brethren--you know the household of Stephanas, how they were the earliest Greek converts to Christ, and have devoted themselves to the service of God's people--
16 I beseech you, on your part, to show deference to such men, and to every one who participates in their work and toils hard.
17 It is a joy to me that Stephanas, Fortunatus and Achaicus have now arrived, because  what was wanting so far as you are concerned they have supplied.
18 They have refreshed my spirit,  and yours. Acknowledge such men as these.
19 The Churches in the province of Asia send you greetings; and Aquila and Prisca, in hearty Christian love, do the same, together with the Church which meets  at their house.
20 The brethren all send greetings to you. Greet one another  with a holy kiss.
21 The final greeting of me--Paul--with my own hand.
22 If any one is destitute of love to the Lord, let him be accursed.  OUR LORD IS COMING.
23 The grace of the Lord Jesus be with you.
24 My love in Christ Jesus be with you all.
