1 If one of you has a grievance against an opponent, does he dare to go to law before irreligious men and not before God's people?
2 Do you not know that God's people will sit in judgement upon the world? And if you are the court before which the world  is to be judged, are you unfit to deal with these petty matters?
3 Do you not know that we are to sit in judgement upon angels--to say nothing of things belonging to this life?
4 If therefore you have things belonging to this life which need to be decided, is it  men who are absolutely nothing in the Church--is it *they* whom you make your judges?
5 I say this to put you to shame. Has it come to this, that there does not exist among you a single wise man competent to decide between  a man and his brother,
6 but brother goes to law with brother, and that before unbelievers?
7 To say no more, then, it is altogether a defect in you that you have law-suits with one another. Why not rather endure injustice? Why not rather submit to being defrauded?
8 On the contrary you yourselves inflict injustice and fraud, and upon brethren too.
9 Do you not know that unrighteous men will not inherit God's Kingdom? Cherish no delusion here. Neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor any who are guilty of unnatural crime,
10 nor theives, nor avaricious people, nor any who are addicted to hard drinking, to abusive language or to greed of gain, will inherit God's Kingdom.
11 And all this describes what some of you were.  But now you have had every stain washed off: now you have been set apart as holy: now you have been pronounced free from guilt; in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ and through the Spirit of our God.
12 Everything is allowable to me, but not everything is profitable. Everything is allowable to me, but  to nothing will I become a slave.
13 Food of all kinds is meant for the stomach, and the stomach is meant for food, and God will cause both of them to perish. Yet the body does not exist for the purpose of fornication, but for the Master's service, and the Master exists for the body;
14 and as God by His power raised the Master to life, so He will also raise us up.
15 Do you not know that your bodies are  members of Christ? Shall I then take away the members of Christ and make them the members of a prostitute? No, indeed.
16 Or do you not know that a man who has to do with a prostitute is one with her in body? For God says, &lt;"The two shall become one."&gt;
17 But he who is in union with the Master is one with Him in spirit.
18 Flee from fornication. Any other sin that a human being commits lies outside the body; but he who commits fornication sins against his own body.
19 Or do you not know that your bodies are a sanctuary of the Holy Spirit who is within you--the Spirit whom you have from God?
20 And you are not your own, for you have been  redeemed at infinite cost. Therefore glorify God in your bodies.
