1 Therefore let us be on our guard lest perhaps, while He still leaves us a promise of being admitted to His rest, some one of you should be found to have fallen short of it.
2 For  Good News has been brought to us as truly as to them; but the message they heard failed to benefit them, because they were not one in faith with  those who gave heed to it.
3 We who have believed are soon to be admitted to  the true rest; as He has said, &lt;"As I swore in My anger, they shall not be admitted to My rest,"&gt; although God's works had been going on ever since the creation of the world.
4 For, as we know, when speaking of the seventh day He has used the words, &lt;"And God rested on the seventh day from all His works;"&gt;
5 and He has also declared, &lt;"They shall not be admitted to My rest."&gt;
6 Since, then, it is still true that some will be admitted to that rest, and that because of disobedience those  who formerly had Good News proclaimed to them were not admitted,
7 He again definitely mentions a certain day, "To-day," saying long afterwards, by David's lips, in the words already quoted, &lt;"To-day, if you hear His voice, do not harden your hearts."&gt;
8 For if Joshua had given them the true rest,  we should not afterwards hear God speaking of another still future day.
9 It follows that there still remains a sabbath rest for the people of God.
10 For  He who has been admitted to His rest, has rested from His works as God did from His.
11 Let it then be our earnest endeavour to be admitted to that rest, so that no one may perish through following the same example of unbelief.
12 For  God's Message is full of life and power, and is keener than  the sharpest two-edged sword. It pierces even to the severance of soul from spirit, and penetrates between the joints and the marrow, and it can discern the secret thoughts and purposes of the heart.
13 And no created thing is able to escape its scrutiny; but everything lies bare and  completely exposed before the eyes of Him  with whom we have to do.
14 Inasmuch, then, as we have in Jesus, the Son of God, a great High Priest who has passed  into Heaven itself, let us hold firmly to our profession of faith.
15 For we have not a High Priest who is unable to feel for us in our weaknesses, but one who was tempted in every respect just as we are tempted, and yet did not sin.
16 Therefore let us come boldly to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy and find grace to help us in our times of need.
