1 Let brotherly love  always continue.
2 Do not neglect to show kindness to strangers; for, in this way, some, without knowing it, have had angels as their guests.
3 Remember prisoners, as if you were in prison with them; and remember those suffering ill-treatment, for you yourselves also are still in the body.
4 Let marriage be held in honour among all, and let the marriage bed be unpolluted; for fornicators and adulterers God will judge.
5 Your lives should be untainted by love for money. Be content with what you have; for God Himself has said, &lt;"I will never, never  let go your hand: I will never never forsake you."&gt;
6 So that we fearlessly say, &lt;"The Lord is my helper; I will not be afraid: what can man do to me?"&gt;
7 Remember your former leaders--it was they who brought you God's Message. Bear in mind how they ended their lives, and imitate their faith.
8 Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and to-day--yes, and to the ages to come.
9 Do not be drawn aside by all sorts of strange teaching; for it is well to have the heart  made stedfast through God's grace, and not by special kinds of food, from which those who scrupulously attend to them have derived no benefit.
10 We Christians have  an altar from which the ministers of  the Jewish Tent have no right to eat.
11 For the bodies of those animals of which the blood is carried by the High Priest into  the Holy place as an offering for sin, are burned outside the camp.
12 And for this reason Jesus also, in order, by His own blood, to set the people free from sin, suffered outside the gate.
13 Therefore let us go to Him outside  the camp, sharing the insults directed against Him.
14 For we have no permanent  city here, but we are longing for the city which is soon to be ours.
15 Through Him, then, let us continually lay on the altar a sacrifice of praise to God, namely, the utterance of lips that give thanks to His Name.
16 And do not forget to be kind and liberal; for with sacrifices of that sort God is greatly pleased.
17 Obey your leaders and be submissive to them. For they are keeping watch over your souls as those who will have to give account; that they may do this with joy and not with lamentation. For that would be of no advantage to you.
18 Keep on praying for us; for  we are sure that we have clear consciences, and we desire to live nobly in every respect.
19 I specially urge this upon you in order that I may be the more speedily restored to you.
20 Now may God who gives peace, and brought Jesus, our Lord, up again from among the dead--even Him who, by virtue of the blood of the eternal Covenant, is the great Shepherd of the sheep--
21 fully equip you with every grace that you may need for the doing of His will, producing in us that which will truly please Him through Jesus Christ. To Him be the glory to the Ages of the Ages! Amen.
22 Bear with me, brethren, when I thus exhort you; for, in fact, it is but a short letter that I have written to you.
23 You will rejoice to hear that our brother Timothy has been set at liberty. If he comes soon, I will see you with him.
24 Greet all your leaders and all God's people. The brethren from Italy send you greetings.
25 Grace be with you all! Amen.
