1 When, at last, we had torn ourselves away and had set sail, we ran in a straight course to Cos; the next day to Rhodes, and from there to Patara.
2 Finding a ship bound for Phoenicia, we went on board and put to sea.
3 After sighting Cyprus and leaving that island on our left, we continued our voyage to Syria and put in at Tyre; for there the ship was to unload her cargo.
4 Having searched for the disciples and found them, we stayed at Tyre for seven days; and, taught by the Spirit, they repeatedly urged Paul not to proceed to Jerusalem.
5 When, however, our time was up, we left and went on our way, all the disciples and their wives and children coming to see us off. Then, after kneeling down on the beach and praying,
6 we took leave of one another; and we went on board, while they returned home.
7 As for us, our voyage was over when having sailed from Tyre we reached Ptolemais. here we inquired after the welfare of the brethren, and remained a day with them.
8 On the morrow  we left Ptolemais and  went on to Caesarea, where we came to the house of Philip the Evangelist, who was one of the seven, and stayed with him.
9 Now Philip had four unmarried daughters who were prophetesses;
10 and  during our somewhat lengthy stay a Prophet of the name of Agabus came down from Judaea.
11 When he arrived he took Paul's  loincloth, and bound his own feet and arms with it, and said, "Thus says the Holy Spirit, `So will the Jews in Jerusalem bind the owner of this loincloth, and will hand him over to the Gentiles.'"
12 As soon as we heard these words, both we and the brethren at Caesarea entreated Paul not to go up to Jerusalem.
13 His reply was, "What can you mean by thus breaking my heart with your grief? Why, as for me, I am ready not only to go to Jerusalem and be put in chains, but even to die there for the sake of the Lord Jesus."
14 So when he was not to be dissuaded, we ceased remonstrating with him and said, "The Lord's will be done!"
15 A few days afterwards we loaded our baggage-cattle and continued our journey to Jerusalem.
16 Some of the disciples from Caesarea also joined our party, and  brought with them Mnason, a Cyprian, one of the early disciples, at whose house we were to lodge.
17 At length we reached Jerusalem, and there the brethren gave us a hearty welcome.
18 On the following day we went with Paul to call on James, and all the Elders of the Church came also.
19 After exchanging friendly greetings, Paul told in detail all that God had done among the Gentiles through his instrumentality.
20 And they, when they had heard his statement, gave the glory to God. Then they said, "You see, brother,  how many tens of thousands of Jews there are among those who have accepted the faith, and they are all zealous upholders of the Law.
21 Now what they have been repeatedly told about you is that you teach all the Jews among the Gentiles to abandon Moses, and that you forbid them to circumcise their children or observe old-established customs.
22 What then ought you to do? They are sure to hear that you have come to Jerusalem;
23 so do this which we now tell you. We have four men here who have a vow resting on them.
24 Associate with these men and purify yourself with them, and pay their expenses so that they can shave their heads. Then everybody will know that there is no truth in these stories about you, but that in your own actions you yourself  scrupulously obey the Law.
25 But as for the Gentiles who have accepted the faith, we have communicated to them our decision  that they are carefully to abstain from anything sacrificed to an idol, from blood, from what is strangled, and from fornication."
26 So Paul associated with the men; and the next day,  having purified himself with them, he  went into the Temple, giving  every one to understand that the days of their purification were finished, and there he remained  until the sacrifice for each of them was offered.
27 But, when the seven days were nearly over, the Jews from the province of Asia, having seen Paul in the Temple, set about rousing the fury of all the people against him.
28 They laid hands on him, crying out, "Men of Israel, help! help! This is the man who goes everywhere preaching to everybody against the Jewish people and the Law and this place. And besides, he has even brought Gentiles into the Temple and has desecrated this holy place."
29 (For they had previously seen Trophimus the Ephesian with him in the city, and imagined that Paul had brought him into the Temple.)
30 The excitement spread through the whole city, and the people rushed in crowds to the Temple, and there laid hold of Paul and began to drag him out; and the Temple gates were immediately closed.
31 But while they were trying to kill Paul, word was taken up to the Tribune in command of the battalion, that all Jerusalem was in a ferment.
32 He instantly sent for a few soldiers and their officers, and came down among the people with all speed. At the sight of the Tribune and the troops they ceased beating Paul.
33 Then the Tribune, making his way to him, arrested him, and, having ordered him to be secured with two chains, proceeded to ask who he was and what he had been doing.
34 Some of the crowd shouted one accusation against Paul and some another, until, as the uproar made it impossible for the truth to be ascertained with certainty, the Tribune ordered him to be brought into the barracks.
35 When Paul was going up the steps, he had to be carried by the soldiers because of the violence of the mob;
36 for the whole mass of the people pressed on in the rear, shouting, "Away with him!"
37 When he was about to be taken into the barracks, Paul said to the Tribune, "May I speak to you?" "Do you know Greek?" the Tribune asked.
38 "Are you not the Egyptian who some years ago excited the riot of the 4,000  cut-throats, and led them out into the Desert?"
39 "I am a Jew," replied Paul, "belonging to Tarsus in Cilicia, and am a citizen of no unimportant city. Give me leave, I pray you, to speak to the people."
40 So with his permission Paul stood on the steps and motioned with his hand to the people to be quiet; and when there was perfect silence he addressed them in Hebrew.
