1 Remind people that they must submit to the rulers who are in authority over them; that they must obey the magistrates, be prepared for every right action,
2 not speak evil of any one, nor be contentious, but yield unselfishly to others and constantly manifest a forgiving spirit towards all men.
3 For there was a time when we also were deficient in understanding, obstinate, deluded, the slaves of various cravings and pleasures, spending our lives in malice and envy, hateful ourselves and hating one another.
4 But when the goodness of God our Saviour, and His love to man,  dawned upon us, not in consequence of things which we,
5 as righteous men, had done, but as the result of His own mercy He saved us by means of the bath of regeneration and the renewal of our natures by the Holy Spirit,
6 which He poured out on us richly through Jesus Christ our Saviour;
7 in order that having been declared righteous through His grace we might become heirs to the Life of the Ages in fulfilment of our hopes.
8 This is a faithful saying, and on these various points I would have you insist strenuously, in order that those who have their faith fixed on God may be careful to set an example of good actions. For these are not only good in themselves, but are also useful to mankind.
9 But hold yourself aloof from foolish controversies and  pedigrees and discussions and wrangling about the Law, for they are useless and vain.
10 After a first and second admonition, have nothing further to do with any one  who will not be taught;
11 for, as you know, a man of that description has turned aside from the right path and is a sinner self-condemned.
12 After I have sent Artemas or Tychicus to you, lose no time in joining me at Nicopolis; for I have decided to pass the winter there.
13 Help Zenas the lawyer forward on his journey with special care, and Apollos, so that they may have all they require.
14 And let our people too learn to set a good example in following honest occupations for the supply of their necessities, so that they may not live useless lives.
15 Every one here sends you greeting. Greet the believers who hold us dear. May grace be with you all.
