1 Six day later, Jesus took with Him Peter and the brothers James and John, and brought them up  a high mountain to a solitary place.
2 There in their presence His form underwent a change; His face shone like the sun, and His raiment became as white as the light.
3 And suddenly Moses and Elijah appeared to them conversing with Him.
4 Then Peter said to Jesus, "Master,  we are thankful to you that we are here. If you approve, I will put up three tents here, one for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah."
5 He was still speaking when a luminous cloud  spread over them; and a voice was heard from within the cloud, which said, "This is My Son dearly beloved, in whom is My delight. Listen to Him."
6 On hearing this voice, the disciples fell on their faces and were filled with terror.
7 But Jesus came and touched them, and said, "Rouse yourselves and have no fear."
8 So they looked up, and saw no one but Jesus.
9 As they were descending the mountain, Jesus laid a command upon them. "Tell no one," He said, "of the sight you have seen till the Son of Man has risen from among the dead."
10 "Why then," asked the disciples, "do the Scribes say that Elijah must first come?"
11 "Elijah was indeed to come," He replied, "and would reform everything.
12 But I tell you that he has already come, and they did not recognize him, but dealt with him as they chose. And before long the Son of Man will be treated by them in a similar way."
13 Then it dawned upon the disciples that it was John the Baptist about whom He had spoken to them.
14 When they had returned to the people, there came to Him a man who fell on his knees before Him and besought Him.
15 "Sir," he said, "have pity on my son, for he is an epileptic and is very ill. Often he falls into the fire and often into the water.
16 I have brought him to your disciples, and they have not been able to cure him."
17 "O unbelieving and  perverse generation!" replied Jesus; "how long shall I be with you? how long shall I endure you? Bring him  to me."
18 Then Jesus reprimanded the demon, and it came out and left him; and the boy was cured from that moment.
19 Then the disciples came to Jesus privately and asked Him, "Why could not we expel the demon?"
20 "Because your faith is so small," He replied; "for I solemnly declare to you that if you have faith  like a mustard-seed, you shall say to this mountain, `Remove from this place to that,' and it will remove; and nothing shall be impossible to you.
21 But an evil spirit of this kind is only driven out by prayer and fasting."
22 As they were  travelling about in Galilee, Jesus said to them, "The Son of Man is about to be betrayed into the hands of men;
23 they will put Him to death, but on the third day He will be raised to life again." And they were exceedingly distressed.
24 After their arrival at Capernaum the collectors of the half-shekel came and asked Peter, "Does not your Teacher pay  the half-shekel?"
25 "Yes," he replied, and then went into the house. But before he spoke a word Jesus said, "What think you, Simon? From whom do this world's kings receive customs or capitation tax? from their own children, or from others?"
26 "From others," he replied. "Then  the children go free," said Jesus.
27 "However, lest we  cause them to sin, go and throw a hook into the Lake, and take the first fish that comes up. When you open its mouth, you will find a shekel in it: bring that coin and give it to them  for yourself and me."
