1 And when they had dined, they brought Tobias in to her.
2 And as he went, he remembered the words of Raphael. And he took the ashes of the perfumes, and put the heart and the liver of the fish on them, and made a smoke with them.
3 When the evil spirit had smelled this odor, he fled into the utmost parts of Egypt, and the angel bound him.
4 And afterwards, when they were both secluded together, Tobias rose out of the bed and said, "Sister, arise, and let us pray that God will have pity on us."
5 Then Tobias began to say, "Blessed are you, O God of our fathers, and blessed is your holy and glorious name for ever; let the heavens bless you, and all your creatures.
6 You made Adam, and gave him Eve his wife as a helper and support; of them came mankind, for you have said, 'It is not good that man should be alone; let us make him a helper like himself.'
7 And now, O Lord, I take not this my sister for pleasure, but in righteousness; therefore mercifully ordain that we may grow old together."
8 And she said with him, "Amen."
9 So they both slept that night. And Raguel arose, and went and made a grave,
10 saying, "I am afraid that he too is dead."
11 But when Raguel returned to his house,
12 he said to his wife Edna, "Send one of the maids, and let her see if he is alive. If he is not, then we can bury him, and no one will know of it."
13 So the maid opened the door and went in and found them both asleep.
14 And she came forth and told them that he was alive.
15 Then Raguel praised God and said, "O God, you are worthy to be praised with all pure and holy praise; therefore let your saints praise you with all your creatures, and let all your angels and your elect praise you for ever.
16 You are to be praised, for you have made me joyful; and what I feared has not happened, but you have dealt with us according to your great mercy.
17 You are to be praised because you had mercy on two who were each the only begotten children of their fathers; grant them mercy, O Lord, and finish their life in health with joy and mercy."
18 Then Raguel directed his servants to fill the grave.
19 And he kept the wedding feast for fourteen days.
20 For before the days of the marriage were finished, Raguel had said to him by an oath, that he should not depart until the fourteen days of the marriage were fulfilled,
21 and that then he should take half of his goods and go in safety to his father, and that he would have the rest "when I and my wife are dead."
