1 Then Tobit called his son Tobias and said to him, "My son, see that the man who went with you has his wages and you must give him more."
2 And Tobias said to him, "O father, it is no harm to me to give him half of those things which I have brought,
3 for he has returned me to you in safety, and made my wife whole, and brought me the money, and likewise healed you."
4 Then the old man said, "It is due to him."
5 So he called the angel and he said to him, "Take half of all that you have brought and go away in safety."
6 Then the angel took them both aside and said to them, "Bless God, praise him, and magnify him, and praise him for all the things which he has done for you in the sight of all who live. It is good to praise God and exalt his name and to honorably show forth the works of God; therefore do not be negligent in praising him.
7 It is good to keep close the secret of a king, but it is honorable to reveal the works of God. Do what is good and no evil shall touch you.
8 Prayer is good with fasting and alms and righteousness. A little with righteousness is better than much with unrighteousness. It is better to give alms than to store up gold,
9 for alms can deliver from death and will purge away all sin. Those who practice almsgiving and righteousness shall be filled with life;
10 but those who sin are enemies to their own life.
11 Surely I will withhold nothing from you, for I said that it is good to keep close the secret of a king, but that it is honorable to reveal the works of God.
12 Now therefore, when you pray, and when Sarah your daughter-in-law prays, I will bring the remembrance of your prayers before the Holy One. And when you buried the dead, I was with you likewise.
13 And when you did not delay to rise up and leave your dinner, to go and cover the dead, your good deed was not hidden from me, but I was with you.
14 And now God has sent me to heal you and Sarah your daughter-in-law.
15 I am Raphael, one of the seven holy angels, who present the prayers of the saints, and who go in and out before the glory of the Holy One."
16 Then they were both troubled and fell upon their faces, for they were afraid.
17 But he said to them, "Fear not, for it shall go well with you; therefore praise God.
18 For I came, not by any favor of mine, but by the will of our God; therefore praise him for ever.
19 All these days I appeared to you, yet I neither ate nor drank, but you saw a vision.
20 Now therefore give God thanks, for I go up to him who sent me; but write all these things which have happened in a book."
21 And when they arose, they saw him no more.
22 Then they confessed the great and wonderful works of God, and how the angel of the Lord had appeared to them.
