1 On that day Tobit remembered the money which he had committed to Gabael in Rages of Media,
2 and he said to himself, "I have wished for death; therefore should I not call for my son Tobias so that I may transfer the money to him before I die?"
3 And when he had called him, he said, "My son, when I am dead, bury me; and do not despise your mother, but honor her all the days of your life, and do what pleases her, and do not grieve her.
4 Remember, my son, that she endured many dangers for you, when you were in her womb; and when she is dead, bury her next to me in one grave.
5 My son, be mindful of the Lord our God all your days, and do not let your will be set to sin, nor to transgress his commandments; act uprightly all your life long, and do not follow the ways of the unrighteousness.
6 For if you deal truly, your actions shall bring prosperity to you and to all those who live justly.
7 "Give alms from your resources; and when you give alms, do not let your eye be envious, nor turn your face from any of the poor, and then the face of God shall not be turned away from you.
8 If you have abundance, give alms accordingly; if you have only a little, do not be afraid to give according to that little;
9 for you will store up a good treasure for yourself against the day of necessity,
10 because alms deliver from death and preserve from falling into darkness.
11 For alms is a good gift, for all those who give it, in the sight of the most High.
12 Beware of all whoredom, my son, and prefer to take a wife from the posterity of your forefathers, and do not take a strange woman to wife, who is not of your father's tribe; for we are the children of the prophets, Noah, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Remember, my son, that our fathers from the beginning, all of them married wives of their own kindred, and were blessed in their children, and their posterity shall inherit the land.
13 Now therefore, my son, love your brethren, and do not despise in your heart your brethren, the sons and daughters of your people, by not taking a wife from among them; for in pride is destruction and much trouble, and in lewdness is decay and great want; for lewdness is the mother of famine.
14 "Do not let the wages of any man, who has worked for you, be delayed by you, but give it to him promptly; for if you serve God, he will also repay you. Be prudent, my son, in all things you do, and be wise in all your conversation.
15 Do not do to any man the things which you yourself hate. Do not drink wine to make you drunken; neither let drunkenness go with you on your journey.
16 Give of your bread to the hungry, and of your garments to those who are naked; and according to your abundance give alms; and do not let your eye be envious, when you give alms.
17 Pour out your bread on the burial of the just, but give nothing to the wicked.
18 Ask counsel of all who are wise, and despise not any counsel which is beneficial.
19 "Bless the Lord your God always, and desire of him that your ways may be purposeful, and that all your paths and counsels may prosper; for not every nation has counsel; but the Lord himself gives all good things, and he humbles whom he will, as he will; now therefore, my son, remember my commandments, neither let them be put out of your mind.
20 And now I signify this to those who I committed ten talents, to Gabael the son of Gabrias at Rages in Media.
21 And do not be afraid, my son, that we might become poor; for you have much wealth, if you fear God and depart from all sin and do what is pleasing in his sight."
