1 Tobias then answered and said, "Father, I will do all things which you have commanded me;
2 but how can I receive the money, since I do not know him?"
3 Then he gave him the handwriting, and said to him, "Seek a man to go with you, while I yet live, and I will give him wages; then go and receive the money."
4 Therefore, when he went to seek a man, he found Raphael who was an angel,
5 but he did not know it; and so he said to him, "Can you go with me to Rages? And do you know those places well?"
6 The angel said to him, "I will go with you, and I know the way well, for I have stayed with our brother Gabael."
7 Then Tobias said to him, "Wait for me, while I tell my father."
8 Then he said to him, "Go and do not delay." So he went in and said to his father, "See now, I have found one who will go with me." Then he said, "Call him to me, so that I may learn what tribe he is from and whether he is a trustworthy man to go with you."
9 So he called him, and he came in, and they greeted one another.
10 Then Tobit said to him, "Brother, tell me what tribe and family you are from."
11 He said to him, "Do you seek for a tribe or family, or for a hired man to go with your son?" Then Tobit said to him, "I would know, brother, your kindred and name."
12 Then he said, "I am Azariah, the son of Ananiah the great and of your brethren."
13 Then Tobit said, "You are welcome, brother; do not be angry with me now, because I asked about your tribe and your family; for you are my brother, of an honest and good stock. For I know Ananiah and Jonathan, sons of that great Samaiah, because we went together to Jerusalem to worship, and offered the firstborn, and the tenths of the fruits; and they were not seduced with the error of our brethren. My brother, you are of good stock.
14 But tell me, what wages shall I give you? Will you accept a drachma a day, plus whatever is needed for my own son?
15 Fine, but moreover, if you return safe, I will add something to your wages."
16 So they were well pleased. Then he said to Tobias, "Prepare yourself for the journey, and may God give you a good journey." And when his son had prepared everything for the journey, his father said, "Go with this man; and may God who dwells in heaven prosper your journey, and may the angel of God keep you company." So they both went forth, and the young man's dog with them.
17 But Anna his mother wept and said to Tobit, "Why have you sent our son away? Is he not the staff of our hand, in going in and out before us?
18 Do not be greedy to add money to money, but consider it as refuse compared to our child.
19 For what the Lord has given us to live on should be sufficient for us."
20 Then Tobit said to her, "Do not worry, my sister; he will return in safety, and your eyes will see him.
21 For the good angel will keep him company, and his journey will be prosperous, and he will return safe."
22 Then she ended her weeping.
