1 Having therefore these promises, beloved friends, let us purify ourselves from all defilement of body and of spirit, and secure perfect holiness through the fear of God.
2 Make room for us in your hearts. There is not one of you whom we have wronged, not one to whom we have done harm, not one over whom we have gained any selfish advantage.
3 I do not say this  to imply blame, for, as I have already said, you have such a place in our hearts that we would die with you or live with you.
4 I have great confidence in you: very loudly do I boast of you. I am filled with comfort: my heart overflows with joy amid all our affliction.
5 For even after our arrival in Macedonia we could get no relief such as human nature craves. We were greatly harassed; there were conflicts without and fears within.
6 But He who comforts the depressed--even God--  comforted us by the coming of Titus, and not by his coming only,
7 but also by the fact that he had felt comforted on your account, and by the report which he brought of your eager affection, of your grief, and of your jealousy on my behalf, so that I rejoiced more than ever.
8 For if I gave you pain by that letter, I do not regret it, though I did regret it then.  I see that that letter, even though for a time it gave you pain,  had a salutary effect.
9 Now I rejoice, not in your grief, but because the grief led to repentance; for you sorrowed with a godly sorrow, which prevented you from receiving injury from us in any respect.
10 For godly sorrow produces repentance leading to salvation, a repentance not to be regretted; but the sorrow of the world finally produces death.
11 For mark the effects of this very thing--your having sorrowed with a godly sorrow--what earnestness it has called forth in you,  what eagerness to clear yourselves, what indignation, what alarm, what longing affection, what jealousy, what meting out of justice! You have completely wiped away reproach from yourselves in the matter.
12 Therefore, though I wrote to you, it was not to punish the offender, nor to secure justice for him who had suffered the wrong, but it was chiefly in order that your earnest feeling on our behalf might become manifest to yourselves in the sight of God.
13 For this reason we feel comforted; and--in addition to this our comfort--we have been filled with all the deeper joy at Titus's joy, because his spirit  has been set at rest by you all.
14 For however I may have boasted to him about you, I have no reason to feel ashamed; but as we have in all respects spoken the truth to you, so also our boasting to Titus about you has turned out to be the truth.
15 And his strong and tender affection is all the more drawn out towards you when he recalls to mind  the obedience which all of you manifested by the timidity and nervous anxiety with which you welcomed him.
16 I rejoice that I have absolute confidence in you.
