1 As to the services which are being rendered to God's people, it is really unnecessary for me to write to you.
2 For I know your earnest willingness, on account of which I habitually boast of you to the Macedonians, pointing out to them that for a whole year you in Greece have been ready; and the greater number of them have been spurred on by your ardour.
3 Still I send the brethren in order that in this matter our boast about you may not turn out to have been an idle one; so that, as I have said, you may be ready;
4 for fear that, if any Macedonians come with me and find you unprepared, we--not to say you yourselves--should be put to the blush in respect to this confidence.
5 I have thought it absolutely necessary therefore to request these brethren to visit you before I myself come, and to make sure beforehand that the  gift of love which you have already promised may be ready as a gift of love, and may not seem to have been something which I have extorted from you.
6 But do not forget that he who sows with a niggardly hand will also reap a niggardly crop, and that he who sows  bountifully will also reap bountifully.
7 Let each contribute  what he has decided upon in his own mind, and not do it reluctantly or under compulsion. &lt;"It is a cheerful giver that God loves."&gt;
8 And God is able to bestow every blessing on you in abundance, so that  richly enjoying all sufficiency at all times, you may have ample means for all good works.
9 As it is written, &lt;"He has scattered abroad, he has given to the poor, his  almsgiving remains for ever."&gt;
10 And God who  continually supplies seed for the sower and bread for eating,  will supply you with seed and multiply it, and will cause your almsgiving to yield a plentiful harvest.
11 May you be  abundantly enriched so as to show all liberality, such as through our instrumentality brings thanksgiving to God.
12 For the service rendered in this sacred gift not only helps to relieve the wants of God's people, but it is also rich in its results and awakens a chorus of thanksgiving to God.
13 For,  by the practical proof of it which you exhibit in this service, you cause God to be extolled for your  fidelity to your professed adherence to the Good News of the Christ, and for the liberality of your contributions for them and for  all who are in need,
14 while they themselves also in supplications on your behalf pour out their longing love towards you because of God's surpassing grace which is resting upon you.
15 Thanks be to God for His  unspeakably precious  gift!
