1 Now just before the Feast of the Passover this incident took place. Jesus knew that the time had come for Him to leave this world and go to the Father; and having loved His own who were in the world, He loved them  to the end.
2 While supper was proceeding, the Devil having by this time suggested to Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon, the thought of betraying Him, Jesus,
3 although He knew that the Father had put everything into His hands, and that He had come forth from God and was now going to God,
4 rose from the table, threw off His upper garments, and took a towel and tied it round Him.
5 Then He poured water into a basin, and proceeded to wash the feet of the disciples and to wipe them with the towel which He had put round Him.
6 When He came to Simon Peter, Peter objected. "Master," he said, "are *you* going to wash my feet?"
7 "What I am doing," answered Jesus, "for the present you do not know, but afterwards you shall know."
8 "Never, while the world lasts," said Peter, "shall you wash my feet." "If I do not wash you," replied Jesus, "you have no share with me."
9 "Master," said Peter, "wash not only my feet, but also my hands and my head."
10 "Any one who has lately bathed," said Jesus, "does not need to wash  more than his feet, but is clean all over. And you my disciples are clean, and yet this is not true of all of you."
11 For He knew who was betraying Him, and that was why He said, "You are not all of you clean."
12 So after He had washed their feet, put on His garments again, and returned to the table, He said to them, "Do you understand what I have done to you?
13 You call me `The  Rabbi' and `The  Master,' and rightly so, for such I am.
14 If I then, your Master and Rabbi, have washed your feet, it is also your duty to wash one another's feet.
15 For I have set you an example in order that you may do what I have done to you.
16 In most solemn truth I tell you that a servant is not superior to his master, nor is a messenger superior to him who sent him.
17 If you know all this, blessed are you if you act accordingly.
18 I am not speaking of all of you. I know whom I have chosen, but things are as they are in order that the Scripture may be fulfilled, which says, &lt;`He who eats  my bread has lifted up his heel against me.'&gt;
19 From this time forward I tell you things before they happen, in order that when they do happen you may believe that  I am He.
20 In most solemn truth I tell you that he who receives whoever I send receives me, and that he who receives me receives Him who sent me."
21 After speaking thus Jesus was troubled in spirit and said with deep earnestness, "In most solemn truth I tell you that one of you will betray me."
22 The disciples began looking at one another, at a loss to know to which of them He was referring.
23 There was at table one of His disciples--the one Jesus  loved--  reclining with his head on Jesus's bosom.
24 Making a sign therefore to him, Simon Peter said, "Tell us to whom he is referring."
25 So he, having his head on Jesus's bosom, leaned back and asked, "Master, who is it?"
26 "It is the one," answered Jesus, "for whom I shall  dip this piece of bread and to whom I shall give it." Accordingly He dipped the piece of bread, and took it and gave it to Judas, the son of the Iscariot Simon.
27 Then, after Judas had received the piece of bread, Satan entered into him. "Lose no time  about it," said Jesus to him.
28 But why He said this no one else at the table understood.
29 Some,  however, supposed that because Judas had the money-box Jesus meant, "Buy what we require for the Festival," or that he should give something to the poor.
30 So Judas took the piece of bread and immediately went out. And it was night.
31 So when he was gone out, Jesus said, "Now  is the Son of Man glorified, and God is glorified in Him.
32 Moreover God will glorify Him in Himself, and will glorify Him without delay.
33 Dear children, I am still with you a little longer. You will seek me, but, as I said to the Jews, `Where I am going you cannot come,' so for the present I say to you.
34 A new commandment I give you,  to love one another; that as I have loved you, you also may love one another.
35 It is by this that every one will know that you are my disciples--if you love one another."
36 "Master," inquired Simon Peter, "where are you going?" "Where I am going," replied Jesus, "you cannot be my follower now, but you shall be later."
37 "Master," asked Peter again, "why cannot I follow you now? I will lay down my  life on your behalf.
38 "You say you will lay down your life on my behalf!" said Jesus; "in most solemn truth I tell you that  the cock will not crow before you have three times disowned me."
