1 When Jesus had thus spoken, He raised his eyes towards Heaven and said, "Father, the hour has come. Glorify Thy Son that the Son may glorify Thee;
2 even as Thou hast given Him authority over all mankind, so that on all whom Thou hast given Him He may bestow the Life of the Ages.
3 And in this consists the Life of the Ages--in  knowing Thee the only true God and Jesus Christ whom Thou hast sent.
4 I have glorified Thee on earth, having done perfectly the work which  by Thine appointment has been mine to do.
5 And now, Father, do Thou glorify me in Thine own presence, with the glory that I had in Thy presence before the world existed.
6 "I have revealed Thy  perfections to the men whom Thou gavest me out of the world. Thine they were, and Thou gavest them to me, and  they have obeyed Thy message.
7 Now they know that whatever Thou hast given me is  from Thee.
8 For the truths which Thou didst  teach me I have taught them. And they have received them, and have known for certain that I came out from Thy presence, and have believed that Thou didst send me.
9 "I am making request  for them: for the world  I do not make any request, but for those whom Thou hast given me. Because they are Thine,
10 and everything that is mine is Thine, and everything that is Thine is mine; and I  am crowned with glory in them.
11 I am now no longer in the world, but they are in the world and I am coming to Thee. "Holy Father, keep them  true to Thy name--the name which Thou hast given me  to bear--that they may be one, even as we are.
12 While I was with them, I kept them true to Thy name--the name Thou hast given me  to bear--and I kept watch over them, and not one of them is lost but only he who is  doomed to destruction--that the Scripture may be fulfilled.
13 "But now I am coming to Thee, and I speak these words while I am in the world, in order that they may have my gladness within them filling their hearts.
14 I have given them Thy  Message, and the world has hated them, because they do not belong to the world, just as I do not belong to the world.
15 I do not ask that Thou wilt remove them out of the world, but that Thou wilt protect them from  the Evil one.
16 They do not belong to the world, just as I do not belong to the world.
17 Make them holy  in the truth: Thy  Message is truth.
18 Just as Thou didst send me into the world, I also  have sent them;
19 and on their behalf I  consecrate myself, in order that they may become perfectly consecrated in truth.
20 "Nor is it for them alone that I make request. It is also for  those who trust in me through their teaching;
21 that they may all be one, even as Thou art in me, O Father, and I am in Thee; that they also may be in us; that the world  may believe that Thou didst send me.
22 And the glory which Thou hast given me  I have given them, that they may be one, just as we are one:
23 I in them and Thou in me; that they may stand perfected  in one; that the world may come to understand that Thou didst send me and hast loved them with the same love as that with which Thou hast loved me.
24 "Father,  those whom Thou hast given me--I desire that where I am they also may be with me, that they  may see the glory--my glory--my gift from Thee, which Thou hast given me because Thou didst love me before the creation of the world.
25 And, righteous Father, though the world has failed to recognize Thee, I have known Thee, and these have perceived that Thou didst send me.
26 And I have made known Thy  name to them and will make it known, that the love with which Thou hast loved me may be in them, and that I may be in them."
