1 "Let not your hearts be troubled.  Trust in God: trust in me also.
2 In my Father's house there are many resting-places. Were it otherwise, I would have told you; for I am going  to make ready a place for you.
3 And  if I go and make ready a place for you, I will return and  take you to be with me, that where I am you also may be.
4 And where I am going, you all know the way."
5 "Master," said Thomas, "we do not know where you are going.  In what sense do we know the way?"
6 "I am the Way," replied Jesus, "and the Truth and the Life. No one comes to the Father except through me.
7 If you--all of you--knew me, you would fully know my Father also. From this time forward you know Him and have seen Him."
8 "Master," said Philip, "cause us to see the Father: that is all we need."
9 "Have I been so long among you," Jesus answered, "and yet you, Philip, do not know me? He who has seen me has seen the Father. How can *you* ask me, `Cause us to see the Father'?
10 Do you not  believe that I am in the Father and that the Father is in me? The things that I tell you all I do not speak on my own authority: but the Father  dwelling within me carries on His own  work.
11 Believe me, all of you, that I am in the Father and that the Father is in me; or at any rate,  believe me because of what I do.
12 In most solemn truth I tell you that he who trusts in me--the things which I do he shall do also; and greater things than these he shall do, because I am going to the Father.
13 And whatever any of you ask  in my name, I will do, in order that the Father may be glorified in the Son.
14 If you make any request  of me in my name, I will do it.
15 "If you love me, you will obey my commandments.
16 And I will ask the Father, and He will give you another  Advocate to be for ever with you--the Spirit of truth.
17 That Spirit the world cannot receive, because it does not see Him or know Him. You know Him, because He remains by your side and is in you.
18 I will not leave you  bereaved: I am coming to you.
19 Yet a little while and the world  will see me no more, but you will see me: because I live, you also shall live.
20 At that time you will know that I am in my Father, and that you are in me, and that I am in you.
21 He who has my commandments and obeys them--he it is who loves me. And he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and will clearly reveal myself to him."
22 Judas (not the Iscariot) asked, "Master,  how is it that you will reveal yourself clearly to us and not to the world?"
23 "If any one loves me," replied Jesus, "he will obey my  teaching; and my Father will love him, and we will come to him and make our home  with him.
24 He who has no love for me does not obey my teaching; and yet the teaching to which you are listening is not mine, but is the teaching of the Father who sent me.
25 "All this I have spoken to you while still with you.
26 But the Advocate, the Holy Spirit whom the Father will send  at my request, will teach you everything, and will bring to your memories  all that I have said to you.
27 Peace I leave with you: my own peace I give to you. It is not as the world gives its greetings that I give you peace. Let not your hearts be troubled or dismayed.
28 "You heard me say to you, `I am going away, and yet I am coming to you.' If you loved me, you would have rejoiced because I am going to the Father; for the Father is  greater than I am.
29 I have now told you before it comes to pass, that when it has come to pass you may believe.
30 In future I shall not talk much with you, for the  Prince  of this world is coming. And yet in me he has nothing;
31 but it is in order that the world may know that I love the Father, and that it is in obedience to the command which the Father gave me that I thus act. Rise, let us be going."
