1 Come, you rich men, weep aloud and howl for your sorrows which will soon be upon you.
2 Your treasures  have rotted, and your piles of clothing  are moth-eaten;
3 your gold and your silver have become covered with rust, and the rust on them will give evidence against you, and will eat your flesh like fire. You have hoarded up wealth in  these last days.
4 I tell you that the pay of the labourers who have gathered in your crops--pay which you are keeping back--is calling out against you; and the outcries of those who have been your reapers have entered into the ears of the Lord of the armies of Heaven.
5 Here on earth you have lived self-indulgent and profligate lives. You have  stupefied yourselves with gross feeding; but a day of slaughter has come.
6 You have condemned--you have murdered--  the righteous man: he offers no resistance.
7 Be patient therefore, brethren, until the Coming of the Lord. Notice how eagerly a farmer waits for a valuable crop! He is patient over it till it has received the early and the later rain.
8 So you also must be patient: keeping up your courage; for the Coming of the Lord is now close at hand.
9 Do not cry out in condemnation of one another, brethren, lest you come under judgement. I tell you that the Judge is standing at the door.
10 In illustration, brethren, of persecution patiently endured take the Prophets who have spoken as messengers from the Lord.
11 Remember that we call those blessed who endured what they did. You have also heard of Job's patient endurance, and have seen the issue of the Lord's dealings with him--how full of tenderness and pity the Lord is.
12 But above all things, my brethren,  do not swear, either by Heaven or by the earth, or with any other oath. Let your `yes' be simply `yes,' and your `no' be simply `no;' that you may not come under condemnation.
13 Is one of you suffering? Let him pray. Is any one in good spirits? Let him sing a psalm.
14 Is any one ill? Let him send for the Elders of the Church, and let them pray over him,  after anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord.
15 And the prayer of faith will restore the sick man, and the Lord will raise him up to health; and if he  has committed sins, they shall be forgiven.
16 Therefore  confess your sins to one another, and pray for one another, so that you may be cured. The  heartfelt supplication of a righteous man exerts a mighty influence.
17 Elijah was a man with a nature similar to ours, and he earnestly prayed that there might be no rain: and no rain fell on the land for three years and six months.
18 Again he prayed, and the sky gave rain and the land yielded its crops.
19 My brethren, if one of you strays from the truth and some one brings him back,
20 let him know that he who brings a sinner back from his evil ways will save the man's soul from death and throw a veil over a multitude of sins.
