1 Why, O Lord, hast thou retired afar off? why dost thou slight us in our wants, in the time of trouble? 
2 Whilst the wicked man is proud, the poor is set on fire: they are caught in the counsels which they devise. 
3 For the sinner is praised in the desires of his soul: and the unjust man is blessed. 
4 The sinner hath provoked the Lord according to the multitude of his wrath he will not seek him: 
5 God is not before his eyes: his ways are filthy at all times. Thy judgments are removed from his sight: he shall rule over all his enemies. 
6 For he hath said in his heart: I shall not be moved from generation to generation, and shall be without evil. 
7 His mouth is full of cursing, and of bitterness, and of deceit: under his tongue are labour and sorrow. 
8 He sitteth in ambush with the rich in private places, that he may kill the innocent. 
9 His eyes are upon the poor man: He lieth in wait in secret like a lion in his den. He lieth in ambush that he may catch the poor man: to catch the poor, whilst he draweth him to him. 
10 In his net he will bring him down, he will crouch and fall, when he shall have power over the poor. 
11 For he hath said in his heart: God hath forgotten, he hath turned away his face not to see to the end. 
12 Arise, O Lord God, let thy hand be exalted: forget not the poor. 
13 Wherefore hath the wicked provoked God? for he hath said in his heart: He will not require it. 
14 Thou seest it, for thou considerest labour and sorrow: that thou mayst deliver them into thy hands. To thee is the poor man left: thou wilt be a helper to the orphan. 
15 Break thou the arm of the sinner and of the malignant: his sin shall be sought, and shall not be found. 
16 The Lord shall reign to eternity, yea, for ever and ever: ye Gentiles shall perish from his land. 
17 The Lord hath heard the desire of the poor: thy ear hath heard the preparation of their heart. 
18 To judge for the fatherless and for the humble, that man may no more presume to magnify himself upon earth. 
19 Unto the end. A psalm for David. 
20 In the Lord I put my trust: how then do you say to my soul: Get thee away from hence to the mountain like a sparrow? 
21 For, lo, the wicked have bent their bow; they have prepared their arrows in the quiver; to shoot in the dark the upright of heart. 
22 For they have destroyed the things which thou hast made: but what has the just man done? 
23 The Lord is in his holy temple, the Lord's throne is in heaven. His eyes look on the poor man: his eyelids examine the sons of men. 
24 The Lord trieth the just and the wicked: but he that loveth iniquity hateth his own soul. 
25 He shall rain snares upon sinners: fire and brimstone and storms of winds shall be the portion of their cup. 
26 For the Lord is just, and hath loved justice: his countenance hath beheld righteousness. 
