1 Let every individual be obedient to those who rule over him; for no one is a ruler except by God's permission, and our present rulers have had their rank and power assigned to them by Him.
2 Therefore the man who rebels against his ruler is resisting God's will; and those who thus resist will bring punishment upon themselves.
3 For judges and magistrates  are to be feared not by right-doers but by wrong-doers. You desire--do you not? --to have no reason to fear your ruler. Well, do the thing that is right, and then he will commend you.
4 For he is God's servant for your benefit. But if you do what is wrong, be afraid. He does not wear the sword to no purpose: he is God's servant--an administrator to inflict  punishment upon evil-doers.
5 We must obey therefore, not only in order to escape punishment, but also for conscience' sake.
6 Why, this is really the reason you pay  taxes; for  tax-gatherers are  ministers of God, devoting their energies to this very work.
7 Pay  promptly to all men what is due to them: taxes to those to whom taxes are due, toll to those to whom toll is due, respect to those to whom respect is due, honour to those to whom honour is due.
8 Owe nothing to any one except  mutual love; for he who loves his fellow man has satisfied the demands of Law.
9 For the precepts, &lt;"Thou shalt not commit adultery," "Thou shalt do no murder," "Thou shalt not steal," "Thou shalt not covet,"&gt; and all other precepts, are summed up in this one command, &lt;"Thou shalt love thy fellow man as much as thou lovest thyself."&gt;
10 Love avoids doing any wrong to one's fellow man, and is therefore complete obedience to Law.
11 Carry out these injunctions because you know the critical period at which we are living, and that it is now high time,  to rouse yourselves from sleep; for salvation is now nearer to us than when we  first became believers.
12 The night is far advanced, and day is about to dawn. We must therefore lay aside the deeds of darkness, and clothe ourselves with the armour of Light.
13 Living as we do in broad daylight, let us conduct ourselves becomingly, not indulging in revelry and drunkenness, nor in lust and debauchery, nor in quarrelling and  jealousy.
14 On the contrary, clothe yourselves with the Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for gratifying your earthly cravings.
