1 Standing then acquitted as the result of faith,  let us enjoy peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ,
2 through whom also,  as the result of faith, we have obtained  an introduction into that state of favour with God in which we stand, and we exult in hope of  some day sharing in God's glory.
3 And not only so:  we also exult in our sufferings, knowing as we do, that  suffering produces fortitude;
4 fortitude, ripeness of character; and ripeness of character, hope;
5 and that  this hope never disappoints, because God's love for us  floods our hearts through the Holy Spirit who has been given  to us.
6 For already, while we were still helpless, Christ at the right moment died for the ungodly.
7 Why, it is scarcely conceivable that any one would die for a simply just man, although for a good and lovable man perhaps some one, here and there, will have the courage even to lay down his life.
8 But God gives proof of His love to us in Christ's dying for us while we were still sinners.
9 If therefore we have now been pronounced free from guilt through His blood, much more shall we be delivered from  God's anger through Him.
10 For if while we were hostile to God we were reconciled to Him through the death of His Son, it is still more certain that now that we are reconciled, we shall obtain salvation through Christ's life.
11 And not only so, but we also exult in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now obtained that reconciliation.
12 What follows? This comparison. Through one man sin entered into the world, and through sin death, and so death passed to all mankind in turn, in that all sinned.
13 For prior to the Law sin was already in the world; only it is not  entered in the account against us when no Law exists.
14 Yet Death reigned as king from Adam to Moses even over those who had not sinned, as Adam did, against Law. And in Adam we have a type of Him whose coming was still future.
15 But God's free gift immeasurably outweighs the  transgression. For if through the transgression of the one individual  the mass of mankind have died, infinitely greater is the generosity with which God's grace, and the gift given in His grace which found expression in the one man Jesus Christ, have been bestowed on the mass of mankind.
16 And it is not with the gift as it was with the results of one individual's sin; for the judgement which one individual provoked resulted in condemnation, whereas the free gift after a multitude of transgressions results in acquittal.
17 For if, through the transgression of the one individual, Death made use of the one individual to seize the sovereignty, all the more shall those who receive God's overflowing grace and gift of righteousness reign as kings in Life through the one individual, Jesus Christ.
18 It follows then that just as the result of a single transgression is a condemnation which extends to the whole race, so also the result of a single decree of righteousness is a  life-giving  acquittal which  extends to the whole race.
19 For as through the disobedience of the one individual the mass of mankind were constituted sinners, so also through the obedience of the One the mass of mankind will be constituted righteous.
20 Now Law was brought in later on, so  that transgression might increase. But where sin increased, grace  has overflowed;
21 in order that as sin has exercised kingly sway in inflicting death, so grace, too,  may exercise kingly sway in bestowing a righteousness which results in the Life of the Ages through Jesus Christ our Lord.
